---
layout:     post
title:      Counting Change
subtitle:   sicp notes
date:       2019-12-12
author:     Sudo
header-img: img/post-bg-sea.jpg
catalog:    true
tags:
    - sicp
    - LISP
---
# The Algorithm of Finding Counting Change

## Two Core Elements of Recursive Procedure

How many different ways can we make change of $1.00, given half-dollars, quarters, dimes, nickels, and pennies?
One way to solve this problem is to use a recursive procedure. The core elements of a recursive procedure are substructure of a problem and edge cases. In this problem, we can easily observe the number of ways to change amount a using n kinds of coins equals:  
- the number of ways to change amount a using all but the first kind of coin, plus

- the number of ways to change amount a − d using all n kinds of coins, where d is the denomination of the first kind of coin.

To see why this is true, observe that the ways to make change can be divided into two groups: those that do not use any of the first kind of coin, and those that do. Therefore, the total number of ways to make change for some amount is equal to the number of ways to make change for the amount without using any of the first kind of coin, plus the number of ways to make change assuming that we do use the first kind of coin. But the latter number is equal to the number of ways to make change for the amount that remains after using a coin of the first kind.
thus, we can recursively reduce the problem of changing a given amount to the problem of changing smaller amounts using fewer kinds of coins.

And also observer the edge cases:  
- If a is exactly 0, we should count that as 1 way to make change.  
- If a is less than 0, we should count that as 0 ways to make change.
- If n is 0, we should count that as 0 ways to make change.

After finding these two core elements of recursive procedure, we can easily translate them to a procedure:

```LISP
(define (count-change amount) (cc amount 5)) (define (cc amount kinds-of-coins)
(cond ((= amount 0) 1)
((or (< amount 0) (= kinds-of-coins 0)) 0) (else (+ (cc amount
                     (- kinds-of-coins 1))
                 (cc (- amount
                        (first-denomination
                         kinds-of-coins))
kinds-of-coins))))) (define (first-denomination kinds-of-coins)
(cond ((= kinds-of-coins 1) 1) ((= kinds-of-coins 2) 5)
        ((= kinds-of-coins 3) 10)
        ((= kinds-of-coins 4) 25)
        ((= kinds-of-coins 5) 50)))
```

## Sample Output

```
1 ]=> (count-change 5)

;Value: 2

1 ]=> (count-change 10)

;Value: 4

```


# References

Gerald Jay Sussman, Hal Abelson(1979). Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs
